For the delete button let's again start with the redux logic.
So here in the actions for example we can register a new identifier remove from card sounds like a fitting
name given that we had Add To Cart before so removed from cart.
I'll also again add an action create or function your remove from cart.
This now only needs the I.D. of the product that should be removed.
So only product I.D. And then this returns a new action object where the type of course is removed from
cart and where we have to pit the product I.D. where I forward the product I.D. I'm getting here now
in the reducer we had to add to cart.
Case now we simply need to add a number a case here.
And that case is to remove from card case.
For Dad you need to make sure you're importing the removed from card action identifier from the card.
Actions file
and in the remove from card.
Case here we have two cases again.
One is that we only had one item off that while product in the card.
Like for the blue carpet.
In this case we need to remove it entirely from the card.
Items object.
So from this object and this will therefore then remove it from this row which we all put here.
If we have two or more items then we just want to reduce the quantity by 1.
Of course you could always you raised this item entirely if you want to but I want to show you how you
could differentiate between these two cases.
So actually if we have a quantity hired and one I don't want to erase the item from the card but actually
just reduce the amount by 1.
So therefore it removed from card we have to find out what our quantity is is our current quantity which
I store in this constant can be deducted from our state of course there in the items we have to find
the product we're looking for.
And of course we can do that with the help of the I.D. which is part of our action here in the pit field
because now state items is an object and therefore we can access action dog pit here right.
This will dynamically access the value with the product I.D..
Key here in our item.
So with the product idea we're getting on this action.
This is how we add items to our items object here right.
We use our product I.D. as an identifier.
This is now what I use here to get access to it.
This will have a quantity because this will hold a value which is a product item.
You could of course also add a check whether this item is actually part of the card.
But the way we build this app we should never be able to reach this action without that product being
part of the card because we can only trigger our delete action here from inside the card screen so we
don't need to check here but we definitely need to get the quantity.
Now we can check if current quantity is greater than 1 which means we need to reduce it need to use
it not you raise it out.
We need to erase it.
Now let's start with the erase case.
So here we just need to return a new items object which includes all the old items but doesn't include
this item anymore so we can have our updated card items here where we clone state items like this and
now to remove a property we can use to delete keyword javascript knows and there we can delete updated
cart items for action pit.
So this will delete this item from our copied javascript object here it will delete this item entirely
does product item entirely from our card items object this is how we can erase it now in the other case
that we simply need to reduce it.
I can have my updated card item so that single card item where I create a new card item with the card
item clause and there I want to copy the values of the existing card item but simply reduce the quantity
to card item takes quantity right as the first values sum now here.
The goal is to get access to state items for D product idea get on the actions since repeating those
will be cumbersome all stored in a helper a constant selected card item is this year.
Now we can replace that here with selected card item.
And here I can use selected card item quantity minus one.
Now of course we know that this won't be zero because the quantity was greater than 1 and now we can
keep the rest of the data off course.
So we keep the product price here we keep the product title.
That all doesn't change the sum however of course changes.
That's the sum the old sum minus the price of course.
So minus the product price because we removed one item we have to reduce the sum by one items price.
Now it is up that ID card item needs to replace the current item in our well card items object so that
we can all reuse some code I'll actually change this a little bit and create updated card items as a
variable here instead of a constant here in the else block so that I just update this variables value
sorted here in the F block.
We can all use that same variable name updated card items where I said does equal to a copy of the existing
items but then I replace my action PID here so my product I.D. my identifier the value there with the
updated card item which is my old card item with the updated quantity and some that's the updated card
items.
Now of course we will also need to adjust the total amount of our estate so often does.
If Alex block we return a copy of the state items can be set to updated card items and now important
the total amount can be set to state.
Total amount minus selected card item
product price because just as updated the sum for this single card item the total card sum of course
also needs to be adjusted such now we can try this patching that's removed from card action.
So let's go to the card screen where I in the end have is on remove function and there I now want to
dispatch an action so I will need access to the dispatch function with the help of the use dispatch
hook we can now use that up here get access to it by calling just used this patch like this and then
dispatch this down there.
Dispatch now import all actions which we need so import everything as card actions from the store folder
from actions card like this again using this bundled import which is totally optional you can also target
the specific things you need.
So target the specific action creators in this case to remove from card creator which we would need
and then down there simply execute this action creator.
In my case by using card action start removed from cart forward to product idea which we of course get
here it's item data dot item dot.
And now keep in mind that we're looping for items of this shape so we'll have a product I.D. field in
there and hence we can use this here to forward this to removed from cart.
This should hopefully therefore allow us to update this and that should be all redone should do the
rest behind the scenes and should automatically re render the card screen whatever the card changes.
So whenever we remove items so I add a two red shirts and one blue carpet and if I remove one Red Shirt
indeed.
Well one problem we have is the orders which is we'll have to fix that.
But you see the quantity was updated correctly.
If an now removed as the total amount pulls up that correctly for now removed as indeed it's gone entirely
and now it is all just disabled.
So this generally works but of course the order being switched.
That's not something I want to happen here.
Now to a white that the order switches we can simply go to the card screen where I change my items to
be an array and there would just need to make sure disarray is always sorted in the same way because
this selector will always reach trigger and re fetch our data whenever our redux state changes.
So therefore here we will always get the latest data snapshot we have in there and hence it's in here
where we just need to sorted in the same way all the time and will therefore always render it in the
same way.
So we just need to make sure that our transformed card items array is sorted by calling sought there.
If I call it like this I start adding some data here.
Now you see this alone didn't do the trick because we're not telling it how to sort it and it doesn't
know how to do this for objects out of the box but we can pass a function to sort where we always compare
two items a and b to each other and then sort has to return a number.
In the end that determines what comes first.
And there you can of course sort this whoever you want.
For example by product I.D. so we can simply return a comparison where we check A's product I.D. compared
as to B's product I.D. And if it's greater then with a ternary expression here I returned one.
Otherwise I return minus one.
This is the normal sort function javascript chips with and now it is ensures that we always sort in
the same way.
Hence now you see if I removed as the red short stays in its place data for our card logic is finished.
Now we can make sure that we can actually also click on that order now button and we add this as an
order which thereafter can visit with the helpful drawer here that allows us to go to the orders screen
which we of course also have yet to add.